Documentation/src/UserGuide/Chapter5.md, before:

Chapter 5 - Analysis Results {#chapter5}
==============================================
XBRate has tabular and graphical representations of analysis results. 

## Reports
XBRate has a single load rating report. This report contains the load rating analysis as well as all the supporting information including the detailed computation of rating factors and cross beam shear and moment capacity.


### Creating Load Rating Report from PGSuper/PGSplice
To create the load rating report from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Reports > Cross Beam Load Rating Report*


### Creating Load Rating Report from XBRate
To create the load rating report from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Reports > Load Rating Report*


## Graphs
XBRate has two graphs; Analysis Results and Live Load Results. The Analysis Results graph displays shear and moment diagrams for the various loads and limit states as well as nominal capacities. The Live Load Results graph displays shear and moment diagrams for the controlling live load cases as well as diagrams for specific live load cases including a graphical representation of the live load arrangement.

### Creating Graphical Results from XBRate
To create the graphical results from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Graphs > Analysis Results* to create the Analysis Results graph
Select *View > Graphs > Live Load Results* to create the Live Load Results graph

### Creating Graphical Results from PGSuper/PGSplice
To create the graphical results from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Graphs > Cross Beam Analysis Results* to create the Analysis Results graph
Select *View > Graphs > Cross Beam Live Load Results* to create the Live Load Results graph



## Other Topics
@subpage chapter5_load_rating_report

@subpage chapter5_analysis_results_graph

@subpage chapter5_live_load_results_graph

Commit message:

Mantis 1130 - Added ability to export graph data

Documentation/src/UserGuide/Chapter5.md, after:

Chapter 5 - Analysis Results {#chapter5}
==============================================
XBRate has tabular and graphical representations of analysis results. 

## Reports
XBRate has a single load rating report. This report contains the load rating analysis as well as all the supporting information including the detailed computation of rating factors and cross beam shear and moment capacity.


### Creating Load Rating Report from PGSuper/PGSplice
To create the load rating report from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Reports > Cross Beam Load Rating Report*


### Creating Load Rating Report from XBRate
To create the load rating report from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Reports > Load Rating Report*


## Graphs
XBRate has two graphs; Analysis Results and Live Load Results. The Analysis Results graph displays shear and moment diagrams for the various loads and limit states as well as nominal capacities. The Live Load Results graph displays shear and moment diagrams for the controlling live load cases as well as diagrams for specific live load cases including a graphical representation of the live load arrangement.

### Creating Graphical Results from XBRate
To create the graphical results from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Graphs > Analysis Results* to create the Analysis Results graph
Select *View > Graphs > Live Load Results* to create the Live Load Results graph

### Creating Graphical Results from PGSuper/PGSplice
To create the graphical results from PGSuper/PGSplice:
Select *View > Graphs > Cross Beam Analysis Results* to create the Analysis Results graph
Select *View > Graphs > Cross Beam Live Load Results* to create the Live Load Results graph

**Exporting Graph Data**: Data from these graphs can be exported to a file by clicking on the *Export Graph Data* button. See @subpage ug_exporting_graph_data for more information.

## Other Topics
@subpage chapter5_load_rating_report

@subpage chapter5_analysis_results_graph

@subpage chapter5_live_load_results_graph
